tuple() are immutable, which means they cannot be mutated or changed by other methods or operations.

range() is mutable, or mutatable.

to create a tuple litereal my_tuple = (1)

print(type(my_tuple)) this results in a class 'int'

where as my_tuple() = (1,) is treated as a tuple with one element litereal instead of a parenthesized expression.

important:

* The order of the elements is significant.
* Lists are mutable; tuples are immutable.
* Use indexing syntax to retrieve specific elements.
* Use indexing syntax to reassign specific list elements.
* Index numbers are non-negative integers starting from 0 and ending at the sequence's length minus 1. (Later, we will learn that negative integers are also allowed. For now, though, we'll only use non-negative integers.)

range(start, stop-1, step)

python optimizes ranges by not requireing the integers before the program asks for them saving memory..

list() is a function that takes an arg. 

```bash
>>> list(bits)
[1, 6, 11, 16, 21, 26, 31, 36, 41, 46, 51, 56, 61, 66, 71, 76, 81, 86, 91, 96]
>>> 
```

tuples, ranges, mappings, lists are all sequenes in python;.

* tuples: ordered
* ranges: unordered
* list: unordered
* mapping: ordered organized as keky value pairs.

dictionary has a class of `dict` - most common mapping.

- a dict is like a list but uses keys like indexes to references elements


make_dictionary = {
    'name': 'george',
    'title': 'construction worker',
    'age': '60',
    'location': 'rochester',
}

dict literals can also have many types within their definition.

```python
my_information = {
    'education': [
        'the school of the art institute of chicago',
        'rocehster institute of technology',
        'rhode island school of design',
        'lynda',
        'linkedin learning',
        'udemy',
        'launch school',
        'frontend masters',
        'community college of rhode island'
    ],
    'years professional experience': '15',
    'desire': 'thrive'
}
```

access and print object within dict
`print(my_information['education'][3]) # Lynda`

now the dictionary store the key value pairs as jthey are added to the ictionary, and does not randomize them. you can say they are ordered. the order can change, so LS referes to them as unordered.

```bash
>>> dic['a'] = 3
>>> dic['b'] = 5
>>> print(dic)
{'a': 3, 'b': 5}
>>> del dic['a']
>>> dic['a'] = 1
>>> dic
{'b': 5, 'a': 1}
```

any immutable object can be used as a key in a dictionary in puython. not just a sastring/. but they do have to be hashable (py110).

## sets
"unorderd collection of unique objects"

recall:

### range
an unordered collection
as a literal it appears as range()
it takes a start, finish, and step parameter

### tuple
ordered collection

### dict
a dictionary stores objects as key value pairs
they can use any immutable type as a key
they are unordered
review how they are classified ordered/unordered

### set
review

all sequences: review mutability
