# Recall

### indexing collections
lists, tuples, and ranges can be indexed by their element positions, but key value pairs like dictionaries cannot.

### strings and integers and coercion
you can index a string. when a `print()` function is used it coaleses the output to a string. The `type()` function returns the type of the argument that you give it, the `int()` function can convert something like `'1254'` to integers. `string()` can convert the integers back to a string of numbers. Another way of checking type is using the `is` `is not` statements but this returns a boolean. thiss introduces truthiness in part at this point. `>`, `>=`, `<=`, `==`, `!=` are truthy comparison operators.
 
 ### statement vs expression
 `name = 123` is a statement because it is not changing any existing part of a program. `1 + 4`, `greg[3] = 'gregory'`, are expressions, because they are changing existing parts of the program. if I were to reassign `name` to `name = greg[2]` that would be an expression.

### floats and numbers and precision of numbers
`1 * 1.0` produces a float type number. if we try to convert an float into an integer we will receive an error `int(12.5)` because it cannot handle the decimal number. there is a standard library `Decimal` that can handle this use case, and can also provide more precision when performing operations. converting numbers back and forth can introduce inaccurate values because of how python handles decimals, so storing numbers as strings and coercing them when they're being used can improve this.

basic_ops#arithmeticoperations